+++
title = "Me in 2019"
description = "Personal goals for 2019"
date = 2019-01-02
+++
Time to write down my aims for this year, so that when I inevitably fail in 3 months (tops), I can look back and feel bad about it.

<!-- more -->
Just going to bullet point this one I think

- Read more technical books. So I think I have somewhere in the region of 15-20 "technical" books at home (by this I am defining "technical books" as books either about a specific language, programming concepts or tools, or generally to do with programming), and I have a wish list of ~30 or so more. My aim with this is to aim to get through ~1 book per month, and only to allow new purchases if I have read two books from my list, if I feel super motivated, I may also try and write a blog post summarising good/bad points about the book / what I learned / etc.
- Which leads into my second point, blog more. At this point I think I have set up more personal blogs than I have written posts across them all, I want this to change in 2019.
- Work more on OSS projects I like. This is hard as it requires having brain space after work and commuting, but will try to do this more - current projects I want to do work on are RSpec-rails and crates.io.
- Maybe get a version 0.1.0 of the rust web framework I have bouncing around my skull working onto the internet so that people can be horrified by my cursed code idea (it is very cursed in it's current iteration, I hope rustc will beat a lot of the cursed-ness out of it when I get around to translating from idea -> code)
- Eat healthier / gym more.

So that is my 2019 goals, lets see how well I do with them.
